lab5 writeup
Tara and Hanieh
02/04/2022

- Improved phenomena in the choices file: 


Subject Agreement Morphology

Prefixes mostly display agreement for the subject of the clause 

- Inflecting verbs agree for the subject of the verb, whether intransitive or transitive.
- Subject agreement is prefixal and is bound with tense marking,    
- while oblique, possessive, and direct object agreement is cliticized to the end of the verb stem.
- subject agreements of predicate (non-constituent according to Bowern) can be hosted on verbs, nouns, adjectives, and adverbs
   
  # examples of agreement with verb as host
  Subject Agreement on 2nd person uses the prefix i-


	Source: author
	Vetted: t
	Judgement: g
	Phenomena: agr
	ijala    
	i-jala
	3MIN-see       
	`He/she sees.'

	Source: author
	Vetted: f
	Judgement: g
	Phenomena: agr
	Ibanya
	i-banya
	3MIN-finish
	`He dies.'
	
  # example of subject agreement in imperative (still on verb)
    Subject Agreement on imperative uses the prefix nga- 
    
  	Source: a:395
	Vetted: g
	Judgement: g
	Phenomena: agr
	Ngayarrala!
	Nga-yarral-a
	2-run-FUT
	`Run!'



B. Anaylysis
		

		Changes you made to choices (paste in the actual choices)



	include copy paste of the specific choices values you changed as well as relevant IGT that I can use to test the effects.

Specific IGT I can use to test the analysis / investigate if something isn't working and you need help.





	2. Verb Morphology (TAM)
	3. Y/N Questions 

    Polar Interrogatives
    
    In her book, Bowern points out two main ways of creating yes/no questions in Bardi:
    
- with a separate interrogative particle "nganyji" that usually appears first in the clause. 
    - questions the proposition in the clause as a whole. For example,
-  with an affix "(g)arda" and "bard(a)" attached to the relevant word (Bowern refers to these as clitics).
    - interract with focus and is used to question particular constituents in a sentence. 
    - The clitic attaches to the element under interrogation (i.e. the part of the sentence the focus is on). For example,

- A description of your process for translating the MMT sentences and your documentation about which sentences may be impossible.

	- The following sentences are impossible to translte:
		- .... because it involves ... phonomenon that we haven't gotten to yet. 

- A description what happened when you tried the MT set up. What difficulties did you encounter and how did you resolve them? What output did you get?

- A description of the performance of your final grammar for this week on the test suite and test corpus, as compared to your starting grammar (see details above).

