Non-verbal Predicates

NP: Null copula
- tense has no effect on if copula is present (pp. 602)
- order of subject and object is flexible

Ginyinggi aamba galgarr.
ginyinggi aamba galgarr
this man widower
`This man is a widower.'

Jarri aamba garnibina.
jarri aamba garnibina
this man murderer
`This man's a murderer.'

Jalnggoogoorr jana nyami.
jalnggoogoorr jana nyami
doctor.man 1M.POSS mother's.father
`My grandfather was a doctorman.'

- preference for predicates to be possessed when describing qualities (pp. 604)

Aman jina laya.
aman jina laya
little 3MIN.POSS fat
`It's got a little bit of fat.'

Niimana jina lagoorr.
many 3MIN.POSS egg
`It's got a lot of eggs.'

- nominal predicates can take the predicate marker -a (pp. 340)
(maybe make boorrboorriid = dancer for purpose of parsing)

Jarr aamba boorrboorriida.
jarr aamba boorrboorr-iid-a
this man dance-EXP-PRED
`This man's a dancer.'

- plural can be marked on predicate even if not verb (pp. 173)

#17
Irr iila irr aarli.
irr iila irr aarli
3AUG dog 3AUG cat
`The dogs are the cats.'

Adj: use of -ni- copula

- combine preverbal adjective with -ni- light verb

Garnka inin.
garnka i-ni-n
raw 3-sit-CONT
`It is raw.'

- no copula refers to permanent state

Niiwandi ngamarlangay.
niiwanda nga-marla-ngay
long 1-hand.or.finger-1MIN
`My fingers are long.'

- copula refers to transient state

Niiwandi inin ngamarla.
niiwanda i-ni-n nga-marla
long 3-sit-CONT 1-hand.or.finger
`My fingers are stretched out.'

- possible special case for hungry/thirsty
- "Words such as ‘hungry’ and ‘thirsty’ are primarily nouns in Bardi, not
adjectives. To express that one is hungry or thirsty, a causal construction is
used, with the noun in the ergative and the experiencer as the subject." (pp 268)

Manyjalnim alig nganjij.
manyjal-nim alig nga-n-j-ij
hunger-ERG feel.bad 1-TR-do.say-PFV
`I am hungry.'

#15
Manyjalnim alig irroojij iila.
manyjal-nim alig i-rr-oo-j-ij iila
hunger-ERG feel.bad 3-AUG-TR-do.say-PFV dog
`The dogs are hungry.'


PP: locative case (possible use of -ni- copula but gloss is different)
- "The most common use of the locative case is to mark the static location of an item. The item can be 'inside', at a location, or 'on' a place" (pp. 217)
Inin baaloon.
i-ni-n baal-oon
3-be-CONT boughshed-LOC
`It's in the boughshed.'

- Some nouns take the locative suffix while others don't. For example, gardin 'cave' does take the suffix but jaala 'beach' doesn't.

Iilanim gardinon irrni.
iila-nim gardin-on i-rr-ni
dog-ERG cave-LOC 3-AUG-be
`The dogs are in the cave.'

Iilanim jaala irrni.
iila-nim jaala i-rr-ni
dog-ERG beach 3-AUG-be
`The dogs are at the beach.'

#16 (park = cave)
Iilanim gardinon irrni.
iila-nim gardin-on i-rr-ni
dog-ERG park-LOC 3-AUG-be
`The dogs are in the park.'

A description of how non-verbal predicates work in your language, including IGT.
A description of your implementation of these phenomena, including:
  A prose description of the analysis you implemented
  The specific tdl you added/changed (paste it into the file)
  IGT I can use to test the analysis
  Any questions you have/things you want me to look into.
A description of how items 15-17 are currently working in the MT set up for you. Do they go through? How much ambiguity? If they don't go through, how do the MRSes differ?
A description of how wh questions of non-verbal predicates work in your language (if available) and what happened when you tried parsing them (after adding non-verbal predicates).
A description of the performance of your final grammar for this week on the test suite and test corpus, as compared to your starting grammar (see details above).